# Text-Analysis-Project
 
Please read the [instructions](instructions.md).

# Project Overview
## What data source(s) did you use? What technique(s) did you use to process or analyze them? What did you hope to create or learn through this project?
### As the holiday season approaches, I thought it would be fitting to take a look at one of my favorite Christmas movies, “Elf.” In order to do so, I pulled movie reviews from IMDb movie reviews. The first step that I took was to download the data and extract it directly from their source. This can be noted on line 7: “from imdb import cinemagoer” and allowed me to receive the data for further analyzation. Some of the techniques that I used to analyze the text was to find word counts and to leverage the sentiment intensity analyzer. My hopes for this project was to be able to see what the top reviews had to say about the movie. While discussing this with my friends, family and peers, a lot of individuals have mixed feelings about the film. Personally, I think it is one of Will Ferrels’ best performances to date, but some of the reviews say otherwise. That is why it is so critical that the sentiment analyzer provided visibility into the movie and individuals reactions to it.

# Implementation
## Describe your implementation at a system architecture level. You should NOT walk through your code line by line, or explain every function (we can get that from your docstrings). Instead, talk about the major components, algorithms, data structures and how they fit together. You should also discuss at least one design decision where you had to choose between multiple alternatives, and explain why you made the choice. Use shared links and/or screenshots to describe how you used ChatGPT to help you or learn new things.
### While constructing my code for the project, I had to make a few decisions on how I wanted to format and develop it in order to perform what I wanted it to accomplish. Some of the major components is to find the number of total words, number of different words, how many English stop words there are and then to analyze the sentiment intensity. I chose to do these steps because not only does it give me perspective on how large of a data set that I am working with, but it also lets me understand the accuracy and complexity of the sensitivity analysis. For example, I would not feel confident if the total number of words without stop words is low, because that could mean that there is not nearly enough content to be analyzed. However, this was not the case, giving me reassurance that the data set was suitable for the project, unlike some of the other movies that I analyzed prior to making the decision of “Elf.”
### One design decision that I had to make was to account for the sentiment score analyzer and how I could manage the outcome to be as valuable as possible. In order to make the results more comprehensive and understandable, instead of taking the average positive and negative scores and then taking the difference, it was more concise for me to just take the compounded scores. This resulted in a much more simplified output for the user and me for design purposes. 
### Another major design decision that I made for counting total words and different words was to take out any stop words that could be identified. This allowed me to articulate the results in a way that would not be skewed due to words like “the” and “it.”

# Results
## Present what you accomplished in your project:
## •	If you did some text analysis, what interesting things did you find? Graphs or other visualizations may be very useful here for showing your results.
## •	If you created a program that does something interesting (e.g. a Markov text synthesizer), be sure to provide a few interesting examples of the program's output.
### Throughout my text analysis for the movie “Elf”, I was able to write a few functions in order to analyze the movie reviews found on IMDb’s source. First, I want to discuss and breakdown what I was able to find when analyzing the count of words. My first step in doing so was to calculate the total number of words without stop words within the data. This count came to be 3,417 with a total of different words being 1,885 without any stop words as well. I was also able to find that there was a total of 2,565 stop words bringing the new total of words with stop words included to 5,976. I thought that this was interesting due to the fact that there are nearly 42% of the words that are accounted for as stop words. 
### The more notable findings came though the sentiment score analysis piece. This part of my project gave me insights into how well the reviews were perceived throughout the audience. A sentiment score is categorized into 4 components: negative, positive, neutral and the compounded score. What I put the most emphasis on was the compounded score. Since this score provided the most insight according to ChatGPT (https://chat.openai.com/share/6d625d11-8052-41e4-a42d-e7db68aaf09b), we are able examine these scores with a wholistic perspective. I was able to average this score by taking the total of the compounded values and dividing them by the total number of scores, which is 25. I found that the average score was 0.795. This is a notable number because the average score that IMDb movies get is a 6.8 out of 10, and if we were to translate this into a score, it would show that “Elf” is a higher rated than average film. (Note: the score that it received in IMDb was a 7.1, which I believe to be a bit low). Circling back to some objectives that I had for the film was to find out that the public perceived the movie in a more positive manner than my peers alluded to. 

# Reflection
## From a process point of view, what went well? What could you improve? Was your project appropriately scoped? Did you have a good testing plan?
## From a learning perspective, mention what you learned through this project, how ChatGPT helped you, and how you'll use what you learned going forward. What do you wish you knew beforehand that would have helped you succeed?
### From a process point of view, I thought that getting the data and being able to analyze different perspectives of the data went very well. I really enjoyed the creative aspect of this project and getting real results of authentic input by people from around the world. I wish to have improved the presentation point of my code. If the code were to somehow be a bit more aesthetic when printing, like bolding or underlining, it would be easier to understand from a user experience. I also could have gone in a bit more depth with each of the categories, but that would have been a bit beyond the projects scope. In addition, I also believe that I properly scoped my project and analyzed some interesting statistics. I can really see how a project like this can be translated across various industries to study text like yelp reviews and transcribed phone logs. Lastly, I felt that I had an accurate testing plan, as I was unsure of any roadblocks until they would occur. However, I was able to adapt and research solutions if needed. 
### From a learning perspective, I learned a lot about the different ways text can be sorted through. Not only did I use my own intuition, but also researched different ways through ChatGPT. The AI had a fair understanding of my objectives and gave me other ideas on the extent I could go to analyze the data further. I wish I knew other tips and tricks besides prompts that maximizes the technologies perspective. I do believe that it was valuable to get the ideas and that is what I plan to do moving forward. 




